Many people assume that cybersecurity is new,
relatively starting within the last few decades.
However, cybersecurity history dates back to the late 1960s,
before people even had a computer.
With the start of the Internet in the 1960s,
known as the ARPANET,
came a need to secure the data connections,
computer systems for those using it,
mostly research institutions, universities, and governments.
Computers in the early days of the Internet often didn't have
basic protection and used telephone modems to dial into the network.
Many of the early computer attacks started as experiments.
In 1971, Bob Thompson made history by
creating a program that is widely accepted as the first ever computer worm.
The worm bounced between computers and wasn't harmful.
However, it would display a message on any infected system saying,
"I'm a creeper, catch me if you can".
In 1986, the first computer virus for MS-DOS,
known as the brain was released.
In 1989, Robert Morris created a computer worm that's considered the first
Denial of Service or DOS attack to highlight Unix security issues.
In May 2000, the,
ILOVEYOU virus written in VBScript and using social engineering techniques,
infected millions of Windows computers worldwide within a few hours of its release.
Lastly, in 2010, Stuxnet,
a Windows Trojan that attacks SCADA systems, was detected.
All of the malicious activity caused the advent of computer security,
also known as information security, and now cybersecurity.
Two computer scientists realized the need for rules to govern these new computer systems.
In 1975, Jerome Saltzer and
Michael Schroeder published the Protection of Information in Computer Systems,
which is still used today.
The first US patent for cybersecurity came in September of 1983,
when MIT was granted a patent for introducing
the RSA Rivest-Shamir-Adleman cryptographic algorithm,
which was one of the first public key cryptosystems.
Around 1986, Clifford Stoll, a Berkeley astronomer,
caught a German hacker working for
the Soviet Union trying to break into US government computers on the Internet.
He wrote about it in his book,
The Cuckoo's Egg, a must read in cybersecurity.
Around that same time,
the US government enacted the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act,
the United Kingdom Government realized it needed
to strengthen its laws regarding computer use.
So in 1990, the Computer Misuse Act was passed,
and in 2001, NIST chose
the Rijndael encryption algorithm to be the Advanced Encryption Standard,
which is still used today.